---
layout: post
title: The Best and Worst Advice
Author: Logan G
---

We all have goals, things we want to accomplish, people we want to be, and places we want to go. 
For me, one of the things I want to do more of and be better at is writing. 
In my day-to-day analog life, I don’t get much of a chance to write anything, especially anything that has a chance of being read by another human being. 
On of my other chief goals, is to stay in touch with the people who are important to me, and not go too many years without talking to them. 
Out of the intersection of these two goals, was born Hencefarthing.  

In case you hadn’t noticed, we’ve been a bit slow to get the site going, it will certainly be quite a while before it is firing at all cylinders, mainly because we both have quite a few other things going on in our lives. 
But, I am enjoying writing and very much read everything Alex publishes, occasionally a few times. 
So we will continue, and hopefully get better. 
But I’ve been searching for ways to make this fit into my normal life easier: new apps, new tools, new methods of writing and focusing, and — of course — advice. 
In this quest, I’ve managed to come across both the best and worst advice. 
And here’s the plot twist: they are the same piece of advice.  


This frustrating paradox has come at me from many sources[^1]. 
Without further ado, and just a small amount of paraphrasing, here it is:  
> Just fucking do it. Just write.  

This is the worst because it seems so obvious, and as a person struggling to do a thing, it seems so obvious that if I could just do it, I would. 
But lets dig a little deeper.  

How much have I really tried writing the last few weeks? An hour a day? Are you sure?  

How much of that time did I really spend thinking about how nice it would be to be a writer?  

How much of that time did I spend think about ways to write more effectively without actually having written anything?  

How much of that did I spend thinking about different ways to think about thinking about writing?  

How much of that was spent planning hypothetical schedules for when to concept, write, and edit articles?  

How much of that was spent staring at a blank text editor wishing the muses would smile down upon me and allow me to channel their wisdom?  

And — most importantly — how much of that time was spent with my hands on a keyboard moving the cursor across the screen?  

I don’t have answers for most of those questions, but I do have an answer for the first and last. 
An answer that is a bit of an eye-opener for me, and really makes the worst advice into the best advice. 
I think I’ve spent lots of time working on writing blog posts, but this[^2] post was written in the last ten minutes.  
So from here on, I think I should spend less time thinking about writing and more following the advice of *just fucking writing*.  

For me, 2018 is going to be the Year of Sincerity[^3]. 
And with that in mind I realize that I do *sincerely* want to write here with my friend regularly. 
So I am going to *sincerely* just do it.  

Until next time.  
±Logan G  


[^1]: Merlin Mann being the main perpetrator, in discussion with his cohosts on [Reconcilable Differences](relay.fm/recdiffs), [Back to Work](5by5.tv/b2w), and of course [Do By Friday](dobyfriday.com).
[^2]: potentially mediocre
[^3]: Yearly themes are much better than New Year’s Resolutions for all the reasons specified by CGP Grey and Myke in [Cortex](relay.fm/cortex). Perhaps I will write about my take on themes sometime.