---
layout: post
title: Icelanditures - Chronicles of land and ice (Part 1)
author: Alex B
---

So now it's my turn to slack a bit on posting current life updates, thoughts, or whatever the heck fits into our "Hencefarthing" genre. Life has been a bit hectic the past few weeks (my never ceasing excuse), so today you're stuck with a previously written piece of my adventure to Iceland.

Back in June of 2016, I went on a 7 day adventure to Iceland with some work buddies. So why Iceland? My first encounter with the island was some time back in high school, when I learned the following fact (probably in geography class): "The capital of Iceland is Reykjavik". Even after knowing this fact for over 9 years, I have to Google the name just to get the spelling right. The combination of the intriguing pronounciation of the capital city and comical misconsumption that iceland is only a land of ice led to my first thoughts that Iceland needed to be visited by a man like me... You know, like 10 years in the future or something like that. Let future Alex figure it out.

But the real motivation for this trip came from an amazing movie called "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty". In this movie, Ben Stiller portrays an introverted employee who tends to live life by the book (that's how all good adventure movies begin, right?). After some stuff happens (seriously, search for the trailer on YouTube for a REAL intro), Ben Stiller finds himself adventuring across all sorts of terrain in Greenland, Iceland, and even some mountains in the middle east. The shots from Iceland really stood out to me due to the vast openness that seems hardly touched by humanity, coupled with the longboard Ben barters for which he uses to smoothly soar down the road. This particular scene is set to some incredible music that instantly put Iceland back on the roadmap of my life.

Below is my detailed account of the beginning to this epic journey. Enjoy.

#TO THE STORY!!

Yesterday we woke up at 8:30 am to pack and quickly jump on a six hour bus ride from Madison to Minneapolis. This leg of the journey turned into a much needed catch-up session between the three Amigos (Emily, Navin, me). We chatted for ~4 lovely hours then watched The Minion movie on the bus. Once in the Western "twin" city we took an Uber to the airport. [If anyone in the audience doesn't know what an Uber is - grandparents - I can explain in person later]. After a few minutes of Eminem jammin we arrived at the relatively empty MSP. At this point we were all a bit high on the idea of our vacation, but it still all seemed a bit surreal. Nevertheless, a few rounds of slither.io later, we were on our way to Iceland!

For any of you who haven't traveled on Iceland Air, I'd recommend using their services at least once in your life. If not for a full Icelandic vacation, at least test it out for the flight attendants. They were beautiful, incredibly kind, and exciting to listen to. Exciting may sound like a weird way to express my emotions, but I was honestly excited for the next time they would have something to say, even if it involved something as simple as putting my phone on airplane mode. I digress...

##ICELAND!!

When we finally arrived on the little blip of volcanic islandness called Iceland, we were met with a small, modern looking airport in the city of Keflavik. After a few minutes of going back and forth deciding which restaurant to eat at for "dinner" (it's 7 am in Iceland, mind you) we decided the best plan would be to check in for our next flight to Egilsstaðir (the East side of Iceland). Low and behold, our flight was out of a different airport! Long ish story short(er), we ended up taking a bus, walking to the wrong side of the airport, taxiing back over to the correct side, and still making it in time for some frisbee + donuts before our flight :)

Now we're in Egilsstaðir. At this point, it's about 3 pm Iceland time today, and we're all a bit cranky due to poor sleeping conditions on the planes. We now expected to pick up our 8 person 4-wheeler, drive to our destination, and pass out. Surprise surprise, the rental company didn't have any 8 person rental vehicles. We ended up grabbing a 6.5 - person jeep with an insanely small trunk as our personal escort machine for our adventures. Okay, I'll stop being so dramatic. It was cramped but we made it to our first home in Seyðisfjörður without too much complaining. Our first afternoon / evening has consisted of pictures, leaping over rocks, eating delicious pizza whilst playing Sequence, and planning all of our upcoming adventures. Now to pass out :)

P.S. Here's some other fun things to note so far:
1. Iceland roads are skinny.
2. There are no speed limit signs, but if you get caught speeding you may end up paying $800.
3. Sheep!!

## Thanks!
Hope you don't mind my 8-month old writing. Hopefully I'll be more prepared for my next post :D