---
layout: brief
author: Alex B
title: Ma3lish, forgive me open source!
categories: code
---

A bit over a month ago, I hit a pretty difficult coding problem. I was trying to figure out a specific feature in an open source library called [React Native Mapbox GL](https://github.com/react-native-mapbox-gl/maps).

_Let me slow down here for a second..._

> Basically, "open source" means the code is freely accessible to the public. Coding projects that are "open source" help millions of developers around the world have an easier time making all sorts of software like smartphone apps, websites, games, and more! While overall "open source" is an amazing thing for the software developer community, sometimes there's projects that break, or people stop maintaining them, or other things can go wrong. I'm talking about a time when I thought this project (React Native Mapbox GL) had some broken code (spoiler alert: I was wrong).

Ok back to this itty bitty story :)

So anyway, I was using that open source library / project React Native Mapbox GL, and I thought I found a bug. I tested one possible solution after another, over and over again, and I just _could not_ figure out why I was getting a specific result.

After 3 days and over 12 hours of staring at the same issue with no progress, I decided I would open an issue on the public repository.

_One more pause..._

> The "repository" I'm talking about is just a website that stores all of the code for one particular project. This project can (usually) be seen by anyone in the world, and anyone who views this project can even add "issues" to the repository! This enables someone like me, a coder who decided to take advantage of this "open source" project, to report a bug I found, or even suggest a fix or enhancement!

_Don't worry, I'm almost done :)_

On 22 February 2020, I created [this issue](https://github.com/react-native-mapbox-gl/maps/issues/683) in the public repository I mentioned. After over 1 month of waiting for comments (and doing other work in the meantime, duh) nobody had commented on it. To me, this means either:

1. Nobody else has run into the same issue I reported
1. Nobody wants to / has time to help me
1. I'm wrong

Today while working I found out that option 3 above is correct... I was wrong... And since I posted in a _public_ repository that _anyone in the world_ can access... Yep, you guessed it! My remarks will never be forgotten. 😬

Sure, I "closed the issue" so most people won't find it. But all I can say is **ma3lish,[^1] forgive me open source**. I won't let you down again 😅🙈

[^1]: Ma3lish means _sorry_ in Arabic
