---
layout: post
title: Kenya - FEAST17 (part 2 of 2)
author: Alex B
tags: Kenya
categories: frisbee
---

In January of this year, I began describing an adventure I went on. My good Egyptian friend and I traveled to Kenya for the sole purpose of participating in a beach ultimate frisbee tournament. Below is part 2 of 2. (Note: If this post starts a bit too abruptly, I'd recommend you read my post from January 27th first - a.k.a. *RIGHT NOW*). Anyway, here we go!

# Friday, April 14:

By the end of the 9 hour bus ride, our bus had stopped a total of 4 times. Earlier Isaiah told us that our bus should only stop once (*halfway, as a potty / food break*), but who cares - we made it to Mombasa in one piece. Upon arrival, Tarek and I leaped for joy (*not literally… our legs were pretty sore from sitting in the same position for almost 9 hours*). We’re finally getting close to our first beach ultimate tournament of our lives! We get to enjoy a nice break while waiting for Isaiah to arrive. But before pure relaxation, let’s follow a few steps. Step 1: find a place to sit. Upstairs at the bus station, in a low-ceiling room with no working power outlets? Perfect. Step 2: phone Isaiah, tell him we made it alive, and figure out how long we’ll have to wait. I get out the phone he gave us, turn it on, and stare at the screen which is asking me for a PIN code. Well shoot… In all the hustle & bustle of getting on the bus the night before, I hadn’t asked for a PIN, nor had Isaiah remembered to slip bit of information in. Ok, maybe my or Tarek’s phones would somehow work here in Mombasa. Nope, next plan. We finally worked up the courage to ask a stranger for help, and he gladly lent us his phone and we quickly learned Isaiah was only about 40 minutes behind us.

After a slightly muggy wait, Isaiah arrived and we were on to our next adventure! Our next few hours of travel consisted of taking *ALMOST* every available mode of transportation possible in Mombasa. We took a tuktuk from the bus station to Kilindini Harbour, a ferry across the water, and a mutato (*with some of Isaiah’s friends*) to Tiwi beach - finally we had arrived!! We stumbled out of the mutato and found some nearby tournament goers that were staying at a nearby beach house (*called <u>Sandarusi House</u>*), equipped with a pool and some amazingly comfortable couches. We would have napped in our own rooms, but it was still before noon on this Friday and our rooms were not quite ready for us. So after some nice down time, we had a tasty breakfast (*eggs, bacon, sausage, orange juice, toast*) which hadn’t hit my lips since being in America for Christmas 2016. Heavenly.

As the day slowly continued on, I felt like I was in a daze. The beautiful beach in front of us, no crowded streets or honking, almost no noise to pay attention to other than a nice breeze through beautiful palm trees. Slowly, players from every team began trickling into Tiwi. Around 100 players roll in, from many neighboring countries. Some players had traveled over 30 hours to get here! (*we thought WE had had a rough travel adventure*). In the evening, Tarek and I joined some new friends on a trip to buy some snacks from the nearest grocery store. We packed 9 people in a van (*which fits 7 comfortably*), got some snacks and water, and shopped around for some ingredients for the next night’s fiesta. While returning home, we get stuck on one road that leads to Tiwi - a road we can't avoid (*it feels like Kenya doesn't have many routes to all destinations*). As we’re stopped, we look ahead at some commotion building in the street, just as the road starts getting blocked by branches. We weren't provided any explanation (*I don’t think anyone knew what was going on*), but around 10 young guys were rolling large logs and branches to block the street. Isaiah, the guy organizing the tournament, gets a bit flustered and wants to jump out the door and pushes the branches away (*he was running late for a Captains meeting back at Tiwi*) - we convince him to stay inside. We back our van up, ask for other directions, and find out there's truly no other way home. At this point, Isaiah jumps out so he can pass the brush on foot, jump in a taxi, and get back to Tiwi on time for the meeting. After he's out for a minute, some police or military vehicles roll through. We still don’t have any explanation for what’s going on, but over the next few minutes we hear some gunshots and see a billowing crowd of smoke arise. We assumed the police were gassing the rebels… Maybe we’ve just seen too many war movies? After a confusing 15 minutes of waiting, we were allowed to pass - the police were firing some shots into the air to signal the street was clear. It seems that the kids we saw earlier had lit some tires on fire to scare people from coming through. We never learned what was the purpose of the fire, but maybe that’s for the best.

That night we chilled a bit with our new friends, ate dinner, and headed back to our room to get some much needed sleep. The night was hot and a bit humid. Our room had bug nets over the bed, which I was grateful for until I figured out that the net blocked the small breeze created by the ceiling fan. The combination of heat and excitement for the next day’s tournament made it difficult to get to sleep. In the past 24 hours we had taken all forms of transportation in Kenya - a plane, Uber, a taxi, a big bus, a tuktuk, a mutato, a bora bora, a ferry, and finally a friend’s van. Finally we were almost ready for tournament day.

# Saturday, April 15

Bright and early, we rose and Oh! What a beautiful view. Tarek and I scarfed down another delicious breakfast, and jumped down to the beach to finally meet our team. Now, most teams in this tournament were pretty competitive with one another. When your tournament attracts teams from surrounding countries, you know they mean business. If you don’t know much about ultimate tournaments, you probably aren’t aware that many ultimate tournaments have competitive teams and teams like Tarek and I were on.

    Hi, I’m Alex! And I’m on the “FUN” team!

Tarek and I had been recruited by Isaiah to join the “Fun” team, which is basically a mish-mash pot of players from many teams, players who have a wide variety of skill levels. Our team had some experienced players (*like Isaiah himself*), all the way down to a few who had only played ultimate a time or two. We had about 7 players from Kenya and 5 others from a variety of countries (*Egypt and USA to name a few - surprise surprise*). On Day 1, our team played 5 incredible matches and almost won at least one of them! Despite our sizeable losing streak, we’d say we probably had the most fun on that day. Our pre-game team time often consisted of dance parties on the beach, and after literally every match our team was the first to throw ourselves into the ocean. When life gives you lemons, have some fun on the beach, #AmIRight?

Every FEASTer (or FEASTian?) was exhausted from the blazing sun and gruesome matches of the day, but somehow the night was still young. Shortly after dinner came a new game (potentially invented at earlier FEAST events) where teams competed to move a watermelon to the opposite end of a swimming pool, while an opposing team tried to stop them. Sounds pretty basic, right? What made the game infinitely more difficult was: before starting the round, the watermelon was smothered with vaseline. Boy, that got nice ‘n slippery! Once everyone was nice and tired from “vaseline-watermelon-polo”, the main event started. Isaiah booked a popular DJ to come spin some tunes for the crowd. We danced all night, way past our bedtime, way past our bodies were meant to stand. My team likes to joke that we were the true champions of the tournament because at least half our our team stayed till the stage closed down. After the concert, 99% of the FEASTans went to sleep. I had the opportunity to follow suit, but I ended up sitting on the beach with a new friend I’d made, staring at the beautiful sky and chatting about how amazing the day had been. Around 4 am, the DJ’s crew walked by us as they had just packed everything up. They invited us back to their place, so we swam in their pool till about 6 am. It took a bit of effort for sensible Alex to kick in, but eventually I decided it was time for bed since FEAST Part 2 was about to start in 2.5 hours. I’ll never forget how the beach looked that night, or the hospitality of the crew. Just another incredible night on this epic 4-day adventure.

 # Sunday, April 16

Sunday was one of the saddest and most fun days of the trip. I again awoke in a daze due to my lack of sleep, but also because I knew this was the last day of matches and that once they were over, I’d have to think about getting back to Mombasa for homeward bound bus route. This time, I hoped, I’d sleep through anything.

The Fun team lost 2 more games (*totalling up to 7 lost games*), but our energy never died (*ok, maybe a bit - we were all pretty tired*). Now came the dreaded packing time - with our snacks and clothes all over the room, we had to somehow make the room look fit for humans and shove our stinky clothes back where they came from. Part way through packing, we took a bit of time to check out the view since we didn’t want to waste the waning daylight. We discussed how beautiful the view was, how we were excited to tell everyone back home about FEAST, and how we hoped we could do this again next year. Once the reminiscing was over, we went back to packing - but something caught our eye. Our bag of peanuts had been drug to the floor, split open, and thrown about. And who was the culprit? A troop of monkeys! Five or so monkeys had snuck into our room and pounced on the bag of peanuts (*and some watermelon we threw outside earlier*)! Our reentrance to the room scared them off, but our hearts pounded for the next half hour. At the time of writing this, I wish I had lured one into my arms to pet… But I guess I’m also happy to be healthy.

During the final moments of light on the beach, Isaiah gave a nice goodbye speech to the crowd and we clapped as teams received awards. Our “Fun” team was given the spirit award :D which was some delicious, freshly cut coconuts. The sun finally fully retreated, we ate our final dinner in Tiwi, and we said our goodbye’s. Leaving Tiwi turned out to be more difficult than we expected - Tarek and I had spent all of our sheckles (*Kenyan currency*) on food and souvenirs so we didn’t have enough money for the taxis!

    Quick note: The taxis in our part of Kenya were not regular sized taxis. Instead, the taxis were regularly sized motorcycles with a small ledge on the back to balance your bags. This was definitely one of my favorite modes of transportation throughout the trip.

To get out of Tiwi and in to Mombasa, we needed to do some last-minute trade from dollars for sheckles. Luckily, at the last minute we found a friend who was scheduled for a similar cross-country bus that departed only 30 minutes after ours! She lent us some sheckles and we were on our way. We arrived in Mombasa and easily found our big bus to take us back to Nairobi. Arriving at our bus station, who would we expect to see but our friend we met on the opposite trip - our friend from Chicago! She had finished her adventure on the coast as well and was heading back home to Nairobi. She was also on the bus leaving 30 minutes after us so once our bus arrived, and knowing the inconsistency in trip durations, we said our goodbyes and jumped aboard. Tarek and I were so accustomed to craziness at this point, that our ride back to Nairobi seemed to go by in a flash. There were a few stops to use the restroom and stock up on some little snacks, and overall the night was quite smooth.

# Monday, April 17

Landing in Nairobi, Tarek and I realized we had about 4 hours to kill before our plane took off. So we took a look around, and who did we meet AGAIN but the same friend from Chicago! Somehow her bus had arrived just slightly before us, what a coincidence! We found a nice place to eat, but we had arrived in Nairobi so early that we needed to wait 1.5 hours before it opened. So Tarek & I popped open our bags and started tossing some discs around!

    Around this time Flying Disc Invasion had been spreading ultimate in Cairo via “disc walks”. These walks were events in the streets of Cairo (*often literally*) where a group of frisbee enthusiasts would go toss discs around, showing random passersby what frisbees are. We would often get people to stop and watch, and even sometimes people would join us or ask us where they could buy the amazing flying discs! Tarek and I went to almost every Cairo disc walk, which is how we came up with the idea to make this week’s event take place in Nairobi.

We played for the entire 1.5 hours before the breakfast restaurant opened, and during that time we got 5 other Kenyans and one lady from Portugal to join! After our “walk”, a few of the disc tossers join for breakfast, and shortly after Tarek and I take an Uber to the airport. Once we arrived in Jeddah, Saudia Arabia, we faced a 7 hour layover. The first room any transit passenger passes through in that airport is a nice, relaxing room with the lights dimmed low and many people sleeping. Tarek and I were relieved and so excited to sleep! We looked around for a nice comfy place to rest, and a kind looking assistant came up to us to help. He asked us flight we’re on, and we told him we’re heading to Cairo. He told us “ok, right this way” and pointed towards the door leading out of this magical haven of quiet solitude. We were a bit confused and looked at him like we were thinking “wait, we can sleep here, right”? And the assistant just seriously but calmly kept pointing toward the exit door. No sleep for us, I guess… As luck would have it, the internet was only free for 30 minutes and most of the charging ports were jacked up from continual abuse. Sooooo what else is there to do?? Tarek and I made the best of this time by planning the first ever Flying Disc Invasion ultimate frisbee tournament. This literally took us 5 of the 7 hours to plan, and we were so awake! With adrenaline pumping through our body, we planned E-RUPT, the world’s first ultimate frisbee event based around the Islamic holiday of Ramadan. With E-RUPT’s plans in the bag, we were ready to go home.

# Tuesday, April 18

I arrived home, mentally and physically exhausted, at about 4:00 am on Tuesday morning. This trip was so short but packed so tightly with little stories and eventures at every turn. When I think back about how events played out, I can’t help but express sincere gratitude towards two specific people. First, Isaiah. Isaiah was the one who originally invited me to this tournament, put me on a team, and for that I’m initially so thankful. On top of those basics, he basically held my hand and guided me through the process of buying bus tickets, telling me very specific details of when I needed to be where, and he even helped me and Tarek catch our first cross-country bus! This trip would have been impossible, or potentially full of catastrophe if Isaiah had not helped in so many ways. Second, Tarek. I decided I’d go on this trip less than a week before the payment deadline. After reaching out to my Facebook friends, trying to convince absolutely anyone to join this adventure, Tarek quickly jumped aboard and made my life so much better. He was instrumental in getting our visas applied for, setting up appointments for vaccinations, and so much more. I’m so happy he was by my side through the crazy bus trip, military intervention, dance parties, etc. He even directed and shot an amazing documentary that covered our trip (link at the end). Without these two great guys, FEAST would not have happened for me. I’d encourage anyone reading this to go experience something crazy this year, and bring a friend! It’ll be totally worth it :)

[FEAST IX - Documenting our Beach Ultimate experience - April 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bpnsSkSldJY)
