[Welcome in Welsh] to Swansea!

Well hello again! It’s been a long while since I’ve written about one of the many Dina & Alex adventures, and believe you me... We’ve been on some splendiforous adventures the past few years! Sorry I haven’t kept up to date with my writings, but here we go!

One more thing before getting going - I was inspired to write about this trip because for me, it started as a bit of a favor to Dina but ended up as an incredibly meaningful trip and we’re hoping to travel back to Swansea yearly _at a minimum_. So that’s a little taste of “why” you should read this (wink) - time to dig in!

## Purpose

So why Swansea? What’s in Swansea? How do you pronounce Swansea??

Seansea is a [city?] in Wales where Dina’s great uncle lives! *_Say whaaat?_* Dina has relatives all over the world?? Yes indeedy. Dina’s great grantparents (mom’s mom’s side) had SIXTEEN siblings!! And one of the many was a surgeon and lives in Swansea!!

While I won’t get into the exact details of _why_ he lives there (the details are pretty bittersweet), I’ll explain _why_ we wanted to visit. Dina’s great uncle Mostafa is in his 80s (at the time of writing this) and hasn’t seen any of his relatives in quite a long time (will get into this a bit later), AND he just recently found a chunk of malignant melanoma on his back :O

So Dina (being the loving person that she is) convinced me that it would be amazing if we could go to Swansea for a few days to make sure he’s doing ok and hopefully lift his spirits (as we’re one of his only family members able to visit). Dina’s mom also really loves Mostafa but it would take a ton of effort for her to visit him in person.

Finally... _and for some comic relief_... Dina is Dina is Dina. We get an opportunity to travel? We gunna travel :thumbs-up: :sweat: <3

## Serendipity

One deliciously serendipitous point to mention: Dina and I had traveled to the UK for an Expensify holiday party last December so she had gone through a bit of pain and suffering to get a visa then, and as luck would have it - she got a 6 month, multi-entry visa to the UK!!

Secondly (Second? Secondedly? Secondipitously? Plusitive?), Dina knew she would have 10 days off work at this exactly time (Apr 21 - 30th) for Eid! Great timing, huh?? :D

Note: For those of you don’t know (or have forgotten even though I’ve told you a million times), immediately following Ramadan, Muslims have a holiday called Eid. Since Muslims fast for a month during Ramadan, many countries (including Egypt, duh) take a few days of vacation after Ramadan to celebrate with family. If Dina and I were in Egypt, we would normally try to travel to the Red Sea with the family for a few days. But since we were already planning a trip to the UK, we decided to use this vacation time to enjoy a few days with Mostafa!

## Wednesday, Day 1: Travel to Swansea

- Fly to Heathrow, bus to Swansea
- Mostafa & Lynda picked us from from the Swansea Quadrant bus station
- Met their dog (Rudy - Bichon Frisey?) and chatted until 1am
- Bedroom is small, bed smaller, but we were so tired we slept like babies

Early on the 19th we hit the road toward the Cairo airport. We were a bit tired because we'd stayed up late the night before. Father had just spent a week in Cairo and we took him to the airport late on Tuesday night, and yes of course we waited till we got home to finish most of our packing :sweat:.

We took EgyptAir to Heathrow which was a nice and snappy 5.5 hour flight, then we waited in a coffee shop at the airport while waiting for our bus departure. The busses to Swansea left either _riiight_ after landing in Heathrow (umm no) or a nice and chill 4 hours after arriving :eyes:. So we got coffee, did a bit of work, listened to some british dude talk about how awesome he was, then strolled & rolled to the bus station.

Dina & her fancy iPhone easily spun up an eSim (Did you know? `e` = embedded, not electronic) so she could keep Mostafa up to date, and we quickly and easily got onto our National Express bus. There was a bit of wifi (max of 40MB download) but very little legroom. Nothing to complain about, though I'm sure if you're reading this you're ready for some drama... Hope you're not disappointed that this trip was actually surprisingly smooth `<3`. 'Bout time we get a smooth travel experience :pray:

We arrived in Swansea's Quadrant bus station at about 11pm and Mostafa arrived soon after. Mind you, at this point in my life I had only heard stories of Mostafa from Dina, and she had showed me 1 poor quality photo of him, so I had little info to go off of. Mostafa came into the bus station with a big belly and the biggest smile :star: - he looked so incredibly excited to see Dina! After a quick embrace, he turned to me to shake my hand. I went for a hug since everyone knows I like hugs as much as or more than Dina, and he accepted thanksfully :hug:.

> Mostafa had been living in Swansea for the better part of 40 years, so he hadn't used his Arabic much lately (yay to me since i'm still not so great with Arabic at this point). He still understands Arabic, but speaks English 99% of the time.

Mostafa helped us wheel our bags down the ramp to his girlfriend Lynda's car. She also warmly welcomed us, though she didn't get out of the car (apparently this was due technically not being able to park in the spot she was waiting, but I guess I didn't mind much). During our short 20 minute drive to Mostafa's house, we chatted about the journey and made lots of pleasantries. Both Mostafa and Lynda seemed to quickly take interest in me and accept me as Dina's amazing hubby. I only note this because I get a bit anxious when meeting family meetings for the first time, but amazingly (and not surprisingly) Egyptian hospitality remained strong even far from the motherland.

Once at the house, we greeted Mostafa's favorite teddy bear. His name was Rudy, he looked like a stuffed puppy - a pure white ///Bichon Frisey. I leaned down to stroke the stuffed animal's lush coat, but it licked me! Sorry, what the heck?!? The toy is alive!! It's an Eid miracle!!! Ok fine, sorry for the confusion, the dog was alive and real as Santa Clause! But boy oh boy (or girl oh girl?) he was CUUUTEEEE!! Apparently Mostafa and Lynda take Rudy to be washed & groomed every 5 weeks, and of COURSE they took him right before we arrived in Swansea! Seriously the dog's smile was AMAZING! (One reason I use `amazing` is because Mostafa himself knows how delightful the dog is, and he called the dog `amazing` at least 10 times per day <3)

Anyway, we settled in to our cramped bedroom, chatted a while, then we were out. The bed was smaller than Dina and I were used to, but we didn't mind at all - the mattress was comfy and temperature was chilly (we had a thick comforter), the perfect recipe for deep sleep.

### Notes of the day

For long time readers (roflol jk), back in my Lebanon writing of 2021 I tried writing notes about each day to see if that would be interesting. I am writing the entire summary of this trip after the fact (haters gunna hate) so this isn't "the same" as lebanon, but I'm interested in leaving a few notes about things I noticed each day. Let's see how this goes.

Note #1: Before meeting Mostafa, Dina warned me he may do a bit of complaining about his ex-wife. Mostafa had been married many years ago and had many conflicts with the lady & her family, so Dina warned me that he might talk about her at some point, and that I should try to avoid that topic if possible. Well it turns out that topic must have already been on Mostafa's mind, as he started talking about that old situation when we were all chatting before bed!

Note #2: Both Lynda and Mostafa were very comfortable talking about a few things that bugged each about the other. This started pretty early on even! After Lynda picked us up from the bus stop and was driving us to Mostafa's house, she mentioned some issue with the carpet in the living room and quickly started blaming Mostafa for delaying the process. I hoped this wouldn't continue through the week, but overall I wasn't sure how to approach responding. Dina did a solid job trying to play the middle ground and give reasonable explainations why each acted the way they did. Well done Dina :sweat:.

## Thursday, Day 2:

- Ate some bakery for breakfast
- We took Rudy to an amazing (Rishon?) beach where there’s a high walk up on a cliff edge - beautiful green grass, horses, sheep along the walk. First time for Rudy.
- Weather was amazing, maybe even hot though the wind was nice and chilly
- At home, Mostafa made us Fish (grilled, he called it BBQ’d but there was no BBQ sauce). He mentioned how all the meat and food in general was getting more expensive, so home made is the way to go.
- Relaxed, then slept early

## Friday, Day 3:

- Mostafa fried some eggrolls & sambusas for breakfast
- Mostafa taught me to make a cappucino on his coffee machine, delicious
- Mostafa and Dina went to Mostafa’s DR appointment to check on his back where he had a chunk of malignant melanoma taken out. Meanwhile I worked.
- I did a bit of work while Dina was cooking, I also took a bit of a nap. Was a slow day because the weather was pretty dreary and rainy.
- Dina made musa’a3, Mostafa made lamb leg & rice for dinner

## Saturday, Day 4:

- Similar relaxing breakfast w/ delicious coffee
- Mostafa took us to downtown Swansea to get some seasonings for dinner, we also walked around about 1.5 hours with Rudy. Weather was slightly colder but overall very nice, we walked near the harbor and “the Mumbles”
- Mostafa made duck for dinner
- Night: Lynda took Dina and I to get cards, cake, and a photo / frame for Mostafa’s birthday tomorrow

## Sunday, Day 5: Happy Birthday and Goodbye
- Mostafa’s birthday, we had coffee at home then went to Tom or Ted’s cuttery (meat cutting) for lunch (11:40am).
Hung at the house till we had to leave - Dina and I played with Rudy. Mostafa constantly mentioning how much Rudy would miss us (I felt like Mostafa was also trying to express how much he would miss Dina / any family coming to visit)
- 3:20pm: Bus to London for Expensify Minishore

A few remarks
- When leaving in the bus, Mostafa patiently waited outside the bus (Dina and I were inside). He was constantly smiling as he waited for us to depart. It looked like he was just full of joy that Dina had to come to visit and we brought some light into his life <3


