---
layout: post
author: Alex B
title: Ramadan 2018 - Double Iftar
categories: egypt ramadan food on-theme
---

Up until May of this year, Logan and I have been writing about... pretty much whatever comes to mind. This is why so far you've seen disconnected posts about our personal projects, random thoughts, and pretty much anything else we thought would be cool to write about. In early April, we decided it could be more fun to write about similar topics somehow. From here, we came up with the idea to have a monthly "theme" we would each adhere to[^1].

The theme for May is "Food". Yes, this is pretty generic AND it's a bit late to be finally writing this month's themed post, but better late than never! We purposely began with a generic theme because we're not exactly sure how "themed" months will work for us - if it will keep our interest, or if we'll bail and try something new next month.

Anyway, here's my first Hencefarthing monthly-themed post.

# Food

During Ramadan, a large percentage of the Egyptian population fasts from sun up till sundown. For Muslims, fasting means no food AND no water during this period. The meal they break the fast with (once the sun goes down) is called Iftar[^2]. Iftar is often a family occasion, and families usually put a lot of work into cooking all day in preparation for this meal. Ok, when I say "families", you should know that the vast majority of families here have a tradition where the wife cooks the food... So when you get invited to an Iftar with a more traditional family, it's pretty special! This year I got invited to one Iftar by some family friends (a more traditional family), and one Iftar with some frisbee friends. Here's how they both went down. 

# Iftar 1 - Family Friends

For the first Iftar, the hosts were one of my family's first Egyptian family friends. Literally their whole family is so kind and loving. They love Alicia and, even better, they can't get enough of Isaiah and the twins. Derek and I still very much enjoy their presence and we love spending time with the crew, but it can be difficult to really feel close to the ladies. Their beliefs prevent us from being able to touch, even a simple high five or fist bump. If you know me at all, you know I like hugs, so this barrier adds a little gap in our relationship.

Even with this barrier, our families have remained close and this Iftar invitation is one proof of our closeness. On the day of our Iftar meetup, my family rode the metro to our friends' house (my Dad was also in town, and our friends were excited to meet him again). Once we arrived, we were kindly invited to come inside, where we eagerly awaited the fun, lively conversation we always have with their family.

After briefly saying hello and chatting about each other's days, the ladies stole Isaiah and went back to the kitchen to finish preparing the final steps of the meal. As time grew closer to the start of Iftar, my family noticed how hungry we were, but we had only been fasting since Lunch! (Does that count as fasting?) We couldn't imagine would it would be like to go almost 15 hours (~ 3:45 am - 6:45 pm) without eating or drinking *anything*! We were first served some karkade, or hibiscus tea, a popular drink during any season in Egypt and a tradition during Ramadan. We waited for the family to join us before we downed the delicious beverage. Next, we gathered around the dinner table for the main course. When I say dinner, I'm simply referring to the 3rd meal of the day for me and my family. For our friends, they actually called it breakfast because it is literally the meal that breaks their fast! [^3] On the dinner table we found multiple plates of mahshi (vegetables stuffed with delicious cooked rice and spices), molokheya (a green goopy soup), delicious fried chicken, and some fresh cut veggies. Obviously our friends had put a lot of work into this delicious meal.

My dad, my sister and I were the last ones eating at the dinner table. According to our friends, after fasting all day for over a week, your stomach shrinks and you're not able to gorge yourself with food, no matter how delicious it is. My family made it quite clear that we hadn't fasted like them in a long time (if ever). After the main course we moved swiftly to dessert! My eyes didn't want to see more food after eating plenty for the main course, but once I saw the amazing konafa and little sugary desserts, I decided it would be rude not to try them all. So I did. My sister also brought a delicious chocolate dessert which I had to taste.

Following dinner, we played some games (Jenga) and chilled for a while. My Dad got really into the games, and everyone had a great time. We left for home with our stomaches full of incredible food, and our hearts full of joy. Combining our families conjures a unique feeling of connectedness that I rarely feel in Egypt.

# Iftar 2 - The Frisbee Clan

The second Iftar I was invited to was hosted by a good friend. This friend is a handler on my ultimate frisbee team, and is well liked by everyone in the Cairo ultimate scene. His name is Meto. He and his wife (and son) live in a city outside of Cairo, called Sherouk. Meto is an amazing host, and he has invited friends to his villa in the North Coast many times, so this was a great opportunity for us to see how he lives during non-frisbee life.

For this Iftar, every participant signed up to bring one specific type of food. They call this type of meal a "dish party" [^4]. Originally I planned to bring Shawerma (since I honestly don't know how to cook anything exciting), but I forgot that most restaurants aren't open mid-day during Ramadan! So my plan to finish work early, grab some shawerma, meet with friends, and finally drive most of the way back across Cairo to meet at Meto's house was seeming less and less likely. After frantically texting a few friends in search of some response like "oh no worries, at least you tried little stupid foreigner", I had a light-bulb moment. I grabbed some big bags of chips, 1 bottle of red wine, and I was off! I thought chips could be a nice filler for any meal, and... well... Who doesn't like a nice cup of wine during a meal, right? [^5].

Upon arriving at my friend's villa, I found many delicious dishes (among some other not-so-creative ones like pizza). I handed my friend the bags of chips I had purchased (he gave me a look like "... really?") and I kept the wine bottle in my bag. Kindof as a surprise, kindof because I wasn't 100% sure how appropriate it was. I then pulled my friend aside [^6] and told him I had a surprise bottle of red wine in my bag. He looked at me and blinked a few times, as if he was waiting for me to say "HAHA just kidding". But I didn't... He then proceeded to explain, in a very polite matter, why he would prefer if I kept the bottle in my bag. He and his wife don't drink, neither do a few of our friends, and finally, Ramadan is a holy month. I tried to play it cool, like "Yeah, I thought you might say that, I'm totally fine leaving the bottle in my bad...", but I don't think I was too subtle.

Once 6:45 pm rolled around, it was time to eat! Everyone stood around the dining room table which was full of food. The first minute was loud as everyone was clambering to get a plate, fill it with food, and finally get some kind of drink. The following twenty minutes were relatively silent, as everyone's main goal was to EAT.

Once everyone had enough food in his / her belly, we moved to a more intimate room where we could also enjoy a nice AC system. We sat around and chatted, playing some fun games such as "system" and "Russian charades".

Finally, the night was over and we headed home. On the > 1 hour trip back to my apartment, I had one main thing stuck in my mind: That was a long trip to get out here, but it was incredibly worth it.

# Post-Iftar Thoughts

In Egypt, I often don't take the time to hang out with friends. Why, you ask? I like to blame this on the fact that Cairo is hot, crowded, and loud. Going anywhere is often exhausting (maybe because I don't have my own car like in the states). When I get home from work, I don't usually think "Alright, the night is still young - who should I see?" No - usually I go straight to "Where's my bed? Awww yeah, that's the stuff..." So when I was invited to those two Iftar meals, I didn't immediately get excited for the new experience or fun night out with friends. I honestly began thinking negatively, about how much energy this would take and how much less time I would have at home to do my own thing[^7]. However, after both occasions I went home with the realization that chilling with friends and family is very important and very good for my soul. Yes, it may require lots of energy, but I would like to try to make more of an effort to see friends and family on a more regular basis.

So there you go, maybe you thought this post was just going to be about food, but HEY I found a way to work in some personal stuff!

I hope you learned a bit more about Ramadan and some Egyptian traditions.

Thanks for reading :)



[^1]: Some of the benefits I hope to gain from our "monthly topic" descision are: More interest in each other's posts, a more connected blog (readers can compare writing styles and content from best friends who live almost a world apart), and fun!

[^2]: When you are eating a meal to break the fast (at McDonald's for example), you would say you're going to "have your Iftar at McDonald's", you wouldn't say you're going to "eat" your Iftar somewhere.

[^3]: I think I finally experienced the true meaning behind my favorite meal of the day!

[^4]: If you remember, the first FDI tournament (called E-RUPT) had a dish party included in the agenda.

[^5]: Ok, I'm not a total dunce. I know that most of my Muslim friends don't drink alcohol, and Ramadan is a holy month, so maybe it would just be me drinking.

[^6]: Remember, the friend I'm talking about now is the host of this Iftar. If he doesn't want me to open the wine bottle, I won't! I'll keep it stashed in my backpack.

[^7]: Not that I had something planned for those nights, I just REALLY enjoy relaxing at home. Sometimes when I say "relax" I mean "wasting time".
