---
layout: post
title: Kenya - FEAST17 (part 1)
author: Alex B
tags: frisbee, Kenya
---

Early last year, from April 13 to 17, I (Alex) went on an adventure to Kenya for the sole purpose of participating in a beach ultimate frisbee tournament. As you probably guessed, this type of tournament is played entirely on the beach. Heaven <3.

Out of all of my hardcore ultimate friends, only one brave adventurer was willing and able to come on this short notice trip. His name is Tarek. Tarek is one of the most talented graphic designers I know, and he is totally in love with frisbee. There's much more I could say about him, but Pshh boring. Let’s get started!

# Thursday, April 13 (The day that never ended):

Our Trip to Kenya started on the morning of Thursday, April 13, 2017. When I say morning, I mean we started at 2:00 am. Does that count as “morning”? As I am not a “morning” person, I decided it would be better to stay awake all night, as opposed to getting some dismal 3 or 4 hours of sleep and risk sleeping through my alarm. After checking 1000 times that I had packed everything I would need for my 4 day adventure, I ordered an Uber. As me and my Uber driver made our way to the airport, I found that my stomach wouldn’t quite settle. It was 2:00 am, no cars were on the street, it had rained the night before (quite refreshing), but something wasn’t quite right. For some reason that will never be clear to me, my Uber driver decided that this morning was the perfect time to drive incredibly slow, avoiding every bump and any puddle like jury duty. I’ve never seen anyone drive so slow on such open roads... But finally we arrived at the airport where Tarek was awaiting my arrival (his driver must have been more normal - not taking heed to bumps or puddles). We made our way to the bag check area and were met with a sea of white. Standing in the bag check line were about 100 people, men and women (and some children), wearing all sorts of pure white clothes - galabeyas, fancy clothes, some guys even seemed to be wearing only 2 towels. Tarek explained to me that many people going from Cairo to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, were taking the flight for their [Umrah pilgrimage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Umrah) to Mecca. Tarek and I were dressed in sports-wear, so we definitely stood out like a couple of white dudes (get it? They’re the ones wearing white and we stand out?). This is also how I learned the hard way that you’re not allowed to wear shorts in Saudi Arabia - even if your travel plans are purely walking up and down the Jeddah airport halls a million times. After handing my bags over to the bag check employee, I was informed that I had to wear long pants, or else I wouldn't be allowed on the flight. Thankfully, I had packed one pair of sweatpants in the bag I was about to check. So I got out those heaters, slapped them on over my gym shorts, and we were off to the next stage. Despite our early arrival at the airport, at this point we were running late due to the vast number of people partaking in the Umrah pilgrimage that morning.

>Quick sidebar: “Lines” don’t really happen in Egypt. While trying to buy food or metro tickets, check bags on a plane, or even board metros, busses, or planes, most people think it’s absolutely critical to get around as quickly as possible. This means if there’s a skinny line of people (with people paitiently waiting their turn), it’s 100% okay to walk to the side of the line, then up to the front and just push your way in when people start moving. Lovely.

And we’re back. After navigating the chaotic “line” that was the bag check mob, Tarek and I hustled through customs and scurried down the hallways to our plane, waited in that boarding “line”, and were off to Jeddah. Our Jeddah adventure was brief, so I’ll try not to take up too much of your time here. You know the feeling when you open the oven door after baking a delicious cake for many hours? Stepping outside of the plane in Jeddah had a very similar KA-BLAM of hot air feeling. Not a great first impression, Jeddah. Second and third, the international connection terminal had very poor Wi-Fi (and a limited connection time of 30 minutes) and only one working power outlet, which sat in the center of a room, positioned on an island in such a way that prevents customers from being comfortably seated while charging electronic devices. So far so good. Tarek and I barely got in touch with our contact in Kenya while waiting for our next flight. The few Facebook messages that were exchanged led us to believe that someone would be waiting for us in Kenya, with our names on a paper. That’s about all we had to go on as we boarded our flights. What could go wrong?

>Another sidebar - these are kinda fun, right? Our “contact in Kenya” was actually a friend from my time in Madison, Wisconsin. He previously worked at Epic, but I met him through some ultimate frisbee events around the city. His name is Isaiah, and he had moved to Kenya around 8 months prior. At the time, he worked at a renewable energy company, building cheap solar panels. I heard he was organizing a beach ultimate tournament in Kenya, and thus I got caught up in this fantastic adventure.

Ok so we're back on the flight. Tarek and I arrived in Kenya and picked up our bags from baggage claim. Now what? We tried to connect to the airport Wi-Fi, but after looking stupid for a few minutes, some friendly customer service employees came over and explained there was no Wi-Fi available and no simcards available for purchase. Okay Kenya, don’t be like Jeddah, please... We decided to go with the one piece of information Isaiah had passed to us - a guy would be waiting for us with our names on a piece of paper. We stepped outside the airport (risking not being let back in), and found a guy with the name “Alex” on a sheet of paper! Phew, that was easy. Right before we got in his car, he mentioned that he thought I was Asian. That took a few seconds to sink in before I asked him, “What?!” As it turned out, this guy was looking for an Asian named Alex, NOT me... Thank goodness we didn’t get in that car. We walked a bit farther down the row of people picking up passengers and eventually stumbled upon a dude holding a sign that read my and Tarek’s full names. Hallelujah, we’re on the right track again. He kindly loaded our bags and we took off toward Isaiah’s house.

At this point in our adventure (it’s still that never ending Thursday), we have about 2.45 hours till we have to hit our next mode of transportation - an overnight bus from Nairobi to Mombasa. Our driver arrives at Isaiah’s house in 1 hour (the roads between the airport and Isaiah’s house are one lane each way, plus we were driving during rush hour... yikes). Isaiah gives us a quick tour of his house, packs his bags in the car, then we’re back on the road to the bus station. Half an hour down the road, we stop for some pizza. There’s an ATM nearby, which is where Tarek and I learn that the Kenyan Shilling to U.S. Dollar ratio is 100:1 (this isn't critical to the story, but a fun little trivia fact. If you don't think it's fun... too bad). At this point we have 1 hour until the bus is scheduled to depart Nairobi - Isaiah doesn’t seem fazed. Another half hour passes and we arrive at our destination - a crowded conglomeration of people and busses. There’s no central ticket booth and no signs reading “Alex and Tarek, wait here!” Luckily, Isaiah knew what to do as he’d taken the same bus a few times before. So we print our tickets, find a nice place to chill, and wait (mind you, it’s about 9:30 pm now). While we’re chillaxing, an American girl from Chicago comes up and asks if she can sit with us while waiting for her bus. Of course we say yes, and 30 minutes later we’ve learned about the Model UN, that time she met a British spy, and her future plans in Kenya. (Don’t forget about this girl, we’ll see her later in our adventure!) Ok, so if you’ve been following the time, it’s now 10:00 pm - our scheduled time to depart Nairobi. Three busses show up like clockwork, all with the name of our bus company - “Modern Coast”. Once the busses start boarding, we ask the drivers which bus Tarek and I should hop on. Surprisingly, none of these busses are ours. We hear our bus has already left!! Isaiah quickly runs back to the ticket booth, yells at some people in a combination of Swahili and English, and somehow finds out that our bus is LEAVING at that very moment, down a side alley. We all run down a dark alley with our luggage, jump on a bus as it's slowly backing over every curb in sight, Isaiah hands me a phone and tells me to call when we arrive safely, and we're off! The bus hardly stopped for 10 seconds before taking off over the pot-hole ridden streets. What a close to this crazy long day, right? Actually, the day isn’t quite over... Tarek and I remember reading a warning on our tickets saying “DRIVER NOT ALLOWED TO PICK ANY PASSENGER ALONG THE WAY. IN CASE THIS HAPPENS, PLEASE CALL 0705700888”. This seemed like a strange warning before, and only 15 minutes into the trip, our bus stopped at a sketchy, old, rundown gas station, and picked up two more passengers. The night continued on, restlessly, marked by one harrowing moment that neither Tarek or I will ever forget. Here’s what I recall:

>A few hours into this leg of the trip, our bus driver gets caught behind a truck moving slightly slower than he’d like. This road is another two-lane highway (one lane going each direction), each lane separated only by yellow lines (no median, no barriers, etc). In an attempt to pass the truck, our driver sneaks into the oncoming lane to get a view of oncoming traffic. He sees a vehicle down the road a bit, close enough that he doesn’t quite have the time to pass the truck in front of him, so he gets back in his lane. Out of nowhere, the truck in front of us careens into the oncoming lane and back again to avoid a huge shipping container that’s sticking halfway into our lane. Immediately after noticing the obstruction, our driver follows suit. While in the oncoming lane, we again see the oncoming vehicle that prevented us from passing the truck in the first place, this time much closer! Lucky for everyone, our driver must have played a lot of Grand Theft Auto as a kid (a video game where you do crazy stunts in cars, among other things), because he swiftly got back in the correct lane just before the oncoming vehicle soared by. I could swear our bus was on two wheels during that maneuver... 

What a terrifying few seconds. What a long day. Thursday, October 13th couldn’t pass fast enough.

### Part 2 of our adventure will come soon!
