---
layout: post
title: The Invasion Playbook - Sprint 1, Week 1
---

Below is a collection of thoughts revolving around a new project I and some "Invasion" colleagues are spending some time on these days. This project, called "The Invasion Playbook," aims at bringing ultimate frisbee rules, skills, drills, and theory to a wide audience, mostly in the MENA region for starters. I won't go much further than that at this point, but basically yes, if you're asking yourself "Is Alex STILL talking about frisbee!?" the answer is unswervingly Yes. Surprisingly, "frisbee" (a.k.a. ultimate) is not the only fun thing about this project. My teammates and I are also attempting something new for all of us - bringing agile methodology into a land of chaos (this is my slightly spooky reference to Cairo). In future posts, I will try to refer to "agile methodology" as "being flexible." This is our interpretation of "being agile" so get used to it.

## Why write this blog?
To be honest, there are many reasons I'm beginning to write a collection of thoughts about this specific frisbee project. To enumerate a few quickly:

I've wanted to update friends & family on my recent work
My Colorado BFF said "let's start a blog" and I said "uhh... ok!"
If this project is successful - both in the goal of spreading frisbee AND in the attempt to implement a project in a fully "flexible" management style, I will be interested in reflecting on struggles, successes, and weaknesses of myself, the "flexible" methodology, and FDI as a whole.
Was that "quick" enough for you readers? Leave a comment by clicking here: <a href="nobodycares.com">Feedback</a>.

So I guess it's time I start explaining the structure of this and future posts on the topic of "The Invasion Playbook".

## Structure
Getting "Flexible" - Sprint #1, Week #1. 1 Jan - 8 Jan 2018.

At the present moment (literally, as I'm wrote this & that other sentence), I plan to break posts into a few different categories: The good, the bad, and everything else. "The Good" will contain good things I learned that week, and things that went well which we will hopefully continue through the project. "The Bad"... is pretty much the opposite of "The Good". I'll try not to get too negative and critical about specific scenarios or people's behaviors, but instead I'll aim to focus on the WHY / WHAT can be changed to put us back on track or avoid hitting some bumps in following weeks. Everything else, I'll title "Looking Forward." This section will contain information like "I threw a great forehand last weekend" (just kidding), or something more up generic like "Learning to trust teammates" or potentially some things we're going to try out next week that sound productive. Ideally, my writing will not just serve to entertain some people who are super bored on a Tuesday evening, but it will encourage people to keep up with our project, or maybe even to try out being "flexible" in their own projects - personal or professional.

Shall we finally get started?

## The Good, the Bad, and everything else
P.S. I'm still a noob to blogging, so forgive me if this transition is a bit too abrupt.

## The Good
Faster progress & increased optimism
Initial chatter about this project dates back to September 2017. Why is this significant? After four months of "thinking about getting serious" and "maybe let's try to meet up once in a while", it's early January 2018, and I feel like the project is FINALLY about to lift off the ground. I believe that much of this recent push comes from our believe in being "flexible." Speaking for myself and from my teammates' outward appearances, we're all optimistic about how this management style will keep us focused on making the best product for our users.

### Clarity now
In our style of being "flexible", we have decided that sprints will take two weeks, and during those two weeks we will meet remotely three times for standups. Therefore, in a two week period we should be chatting a minimum of four times. This gives each team member ample opportunity to ask questions and get clarity on tasks they're working on, or anything they may be confused about.

### Organized task list
Ever since I interned at a software company 4 years ago, I've wanted to used a Kanban board in a real life project. The "real" employees at that company used these boards every day to manage tasks they're working on, what they need help with, etc. I've tried a few systems with friends in Colorado, Wisconsin, and last year in Egypt, but now FINALLY we have 3 team members actively updating lists and cards on a system called Trello. So far we have remained organized using Trello, and I have high hopes for staying organized and efficient over the coming months.

### Recognizing each others' achievements / progress
I have to admit, I'm a sucker for positive feedback. Any time I hear someone express how well I did a certain task, I feel pumped and ready to get back to work, aiming for another boost for my confidence. This week, on a super simple task, one of my teammates told me "great job!" - I'm going to try to return the favor, and seek out opportunities to give more accolades.

## The Bad
### First backlog meeting
Our first backlog meeting was a bit unorganized, since none of us are professionals. We weren't sure exactly how to define our product vision or how to come up with initial tasks for sprint #1. We may be able to fix this by giving one person a task of creating the agenda for our backlog / sprint review meetings to stay focused and organized, but truthfully this may just get better with practice.

### Having enough tasks
Finishing tasks early is great, but it can be annoying when you have to wait for others to finish theirs before moving forward. I'm guessing it's best to make sure everyone has enough tasks to work on for the entire sprint, just to make sure the project moves forward in an efficient manner. I think we will get better at creating and distributing tasks as we gain experience with being "flexible".

## Looking forward
### Trusting teammates
Trusting people is not always easy. When you're a super efficient, hard-working, brilliant designer with an engineering background (like one of my teammates), it's easy to put your trust in one person: yourself. This week, that teammate realized he needs to learn to trust others for our project to be successful. In a "flexible" environment, there are no managers with the task of micromanagement, or "fixing everyone else's mistakes." As a "flexible" FDI project, this team has some simple goals: spreading frisbee, respecting others, and learning along the way. We're all going to make mistakes, but trusting each other will empower everyone to learn and become the best we can be. We want this project to be as successful as possible, and to move toward that goal, we need to trust each other and allow mistakes. We are in control of this project, and if we decide our vision needs to shift for any reason, we will do that.

### Success means sacrifice
I want to briefly explain why I think we are more successful at this stage.    Before adopting the "flexible" methodology, we could hardly stay focused and productive for one or even two weeks at a time. Our new found commitment and excitement come from one important but sad action we had to take. To ensure the success of our project, we had to exclude one Invader who was less than 100% committed to the project. I hope, in a month or two, we can impress him with our progress and management methods so he will commit and join our team once again. The decision to exclude my good friend was not easy, but I believe it was necessary for the success of the project. Only time will tell if this was a good or bad decision.

### Receiving and accepting positive feedback
On a slightly unrelated note, I wanted to talk a bit about my "good" comment about receiving positive feedback. I have not always been good at accepting positive feedback. Whether my mom tells me "you're so kind" (because she's my mom), or my friend says "wow, you're so great at making waffles" (my greatest accomplishment), accepting that feedback by saying "thank you!" has been very beneficial. I used to (and sometimes still do) try to negate the compliment by saying something negative about myself to make the person laugh and break any tension, but I've found that doesn't solve anything, and sometimes offends the person giving the compliment. For anyone reading this who also struggles with accepting compliments or generic positive feedback, try accepting it with grace by saying "thank you", and believing that you are a cool person, great walker, or amazing waffle eater.

## Thank You
Thanks for reading this post! My intent is to continue writing about the developments of The Invasion Playbook, so come back every week if this interests you!
