---
title: JOMO
author: Logan G
layout: post
tags: yearlyThemes
---
You've heard of FOMO, but lately I've been enjoying a bit of JOMO. JOMO in this case can stand for either Joy of Missing Out or January of Missing Out, because that is how I decided I would like to kick off my 2019 yearly theme. I started by deleting my Snapchat, Facebook, and Twitter accounts as well as removing Instagram from my phone. I also cut ½ of the podcasts I listen to, 70% of the blogs I followed, and all newsletters and unnecessary emails I received. There's dozens[^1] of similar posts scattered across the internet written by people doing similar things.[^10] This post will be no different than any of those, except of course that I wrote it, rather than somebody else.  

### But Why?
Like everyone else, I've felt a growing unease with social media and its role in our society for the last three or four years. I hadn't regularly checked Facebook, Snapchat, or LinkedIn[^2] in nearly a year, so I mainly felt good about being a non-participant. My new status quo was to check Instagram and Twitter once per day, and Facebook every few weeks in case I'd been invited to a friend event. And I was perfectly happy with this arrangement.  
The first thing that gave me pause was listening to Hello Internet [№ 108][3]: _Project Cyclops_. One of the cohosts describes his plan to go completely offline through the end of 2018. No podcasts, no blogs, no emails, no social media, no news… nothing at all. It seemed drastic and more than a little bit ridiculous. And yet.. I related to many of the feelings he was hoping to eliminate with this spirit quest; I began to wonder if something similar might be good for **me**. But — life was busy and I had other, more important things to worry about, so I put the thought on a background process and decided I'd try to check in on it a few months later.  
Time crept on, and between class and work, I found myself growing overwhelmed. I resolved to read a book that I'd been flirting with reading for a while: [Deep Work by Cal Newport][4]. It is an exploration of, love letter to, and sales pitch for what the author dubs "deep work", as opposed to "shallow work". To paraphrase, if you could train a monkey[^5] to do it, it is probably shallow work. And as an expert in a field, your time is best spent on as much deep work as possible. But thats for another post. The takeaway relevant to this post is that one should analyze use of social media the same way one would analyze the use of any other tool in their life.  
Stepping back, I looked at my use of social media services. And it began to dawn on me: they served me virtually zero utility and caused slight amounts of anxiety. Thusly encouraged, I began to take a similar look at the other things in my life. Yes, I do like technology. But is listening to 5 or 6 podcasts episodes per week about tech "news" really adding anything to my life? What about tech blogs? What about the actual news?  

### And so
As I culled podcasts and blogs, I began to wonder: all these ended up here because I enjoyed them, or thought they were cool, should I really be deleting them? Won't I miss them? I decided to ruminate[^6] on it. My conclusion: do you really _love_ all 30 podcasts? And listening to too many was lessening my enjoyment of all of them. So I went crazy with the delete button. What's left is the shows that I would never want to miss an episode of: my favorite shows, one might say. Open the app I use to read blogs, and repeat. Email newsletters? Samesies.  

### What now?
Well, I'm only a few weeks in. I haven't yet outgrown the impulse to check the assorted RSS and podcast feeds several times a day. I often feel like there's nothing for me to read, listen to, or watch.  
But, I've cleaned out the kitchen cabinets and started cleaning out the closets — projects I've been meaning to start for months. I've read a couple more books. I've successfully completed a large work project that seemed like it would be a failure. I've baked several complicated new recipes[^7] from [The Food Lab][8].  
I've even given extensive thought to my goals and priorities in life. And I don't think lots of the things I've eliminated will be coming back. Not because I don't miss them, but rather because I do not think they are in service of my life goals. I do need distractions and diversions, but I don't need so many that I run out of time to do what I actually want to do.  

### Thank you
Thank you for taking the time to read this post; writing it sparked quite a few ideas for other things I want to explore in more depth, probably in other posts. And it really helped me inform some of my ideas on these matters. So I will simply leave you with a quote[^9] that has become a bit of a mantra for me the last few months:

> Cut the bullshit. Do the hard stuff. Make something that you love.


[^1]: hundreds? thousands? who even knows
[^2]: Why didn't I delete LinkedIn? To be perfectly honest, I forgot it existed 😅
[3]: http://www.hellointernet.fm/podcast/108
[4]: http://calnewport.com/books/deep-work/
[^5]: or, as the author says, grad student
[^6]: Some might say meditate. I prefer ruminate because it sounds less pretty and ideal than meditate, and — let's be honest here — I often think deeply while eating, so the double meaning of ruminate makes me chuckle. But again: thats a different post.
[^7]: much to my wife's enjoyment
[8]: https://www.kenjilopezalt.com
[^9]: I think from Merlin Mann? Maybe?
[^10]: and calling them "digital detoxes". what a gross phrase.