---
layout: post
author: Logan G
title: Themes
categories: seasons, Season of Investment
excerpt: Logan’s switch from yearly to seasonal themes, and his latest.
---
I've written [before][1] about the idea of [Yearly Themes][2]. Last year, I got a lot out of my them, but it seemed to last far too long. How do I know it lasted far too long? Well by the time fall rolled around it had already become part of my thought processes, and I didn't notice it anymore..  
The nature of themes is abstract, and it makes sense that some themes will take more or less time to implant themselves in any given brain. With that in mind, I feel like a better course of action is to do _seasonal_ themes[^4], where _seasons_ are as short as a few months and as long as needed.  
My current seasonal theme started in what I think of as the Cold Season[^5] here in Colorado, and will last at least through the Snow Season[^6], if not Spring[^7] and further. This is...  

## The Season of Investment ##

This theme is most accurately described as the first word that I came across which felt right. There were several things I was already trying to pursue but could not quite unify under a single banner until I thought of the word `investment`. But I also justified it in this way: much of my youth was --- unintentionally, on my part --- focused on investing in skills and behaviors that would serve me well later in life. Much of my recent life has involved cashing out on these investments by having a relatively luxurious life, and not having to worry too much about the future. I figure it is time for me to turn that around.  
As of now, the Season of Investment consists of three parts, although more are making themselves apparent as Life happens. I'll walk through the three starting points first, then touch on the auxiliary topics. I intend to write follow up posts with more detail and new developments, and I sincerely hope that I do.  

### 1 Invest in My Fitness ###

I've struggled with my physical fitness before, mostly stemming from my own bad habits or foolish behavior. I have made lots of progress, but a certain amount of maintenance will be required for the rest of my life. This portion of my theme is to help instill the habits and attitude needed to ensure my body continues to serve me well for the many decades I plan on being around.  
The primary way I will invest in my fitness is by **doing something active every day**, which will usually be stretching at a minimum, but I will also workout regularly.[^8] I hope to be able to stand up to my full height every day and to obtain a full range of motion in all exercises.  
There are a couple side quests as well:
* Reduce time spent sitting or slouching
* Eat less meat, dairy, and simple carbs and sugars

### 2 Invest in My Family ###
Here, I take family to include the folks I am related to by blood, by marriage, and by choice (friends). I intend to foster healthy long term relationships with these folks by calling or hanging out with someone every week. I also think it would be healthier for myself, my loved ones, and our relationships for me to cut back on the sarcasm and become a more genuine person. I want to make fewer snide comments[^3] and have more sincere heart-to-heart conversations with people.[^9]

### 3 Invest in Our Future ###
My future, my eventual children's future, my species' future.. all of it. Seems a little big, I know. But the previous two are where most of my attention is going. I intend to pursue the following ideas (and more), as deemed appropriate:
* Financial Independence : focused on the futures of me, my wife, and our eventual children. Also fittingly focused on financial investments
* Moving to a house in the mountains : Same beneficiaries as above, a large potential investment of time and money
* Finding additional income generators for me and my wife : see above
* Reducing our carbon footprint : everyone wins from this one

### Auxiliary Ideas ###
It is often said that writing _is_ thinking. As such, I should be honest with you: while I was  ~~writing~~ thinking this through, I discovered that some of the auxiliary ideas had actually been part of one of the other categories all along. Which leaves me in the awkward position of only having one more thing to talk about in this section.  

I have long been jealous of my more religious co-humans. From the outside, it looks like they have it made: a guidebook/instruction manual for life, rituals that help strengthen the mind and celebrate major moments, a community of like-minded individuals... But unfortunately none of the religions I've seen first-hand sit particularly well with me.  
Over the years I've done lots of reading and even more thinking. I've been through good, great, and bad times. I've seen people experience both better and worse than I have. I've realized that I'm still young and ignorant, and I will never fully understand the world or the people in it.  
And after all that, I finally feel like I have a grasp on the things that I think make a good life good. In the spirit of investing in my future, I decided to undertake the projecting of codifying and documenting these thoughts. Of building myself a compass to guide future decisions. This should make a good future post, so I'll just leave it at that for now.

## But Why? ##
Why themes? Excellent question! I suggest the video linked in the intro or the podcast [Cortex](https://relay.fm/cortex) for a general answer. If you're curious why _I_ specifically like them, let me know and I'll think about writing it up.  

Or maybe you're wondering why this theme, or why some of the specific goals or steps I plan on taking. Just ask your question, and I'll see if I can come up with a good answer for you!

[1]: https://hencefarthing.blog/2019/01/17/JOMO/
[2]: https://www.cgpgrey.com/blog/your-theme
[^3]: No matter how amusing
[^4]: Yes, as suggested in the video. No, I thought of it on my own before I saw that video. No, I don't have proof, nor did I do anything with that notion.
[^5]: November, December, January
[^6]: February, March, April
[^7]: May, early June
[^8]: Granting that themes generally don't have _goals_, I have decided to instate one any way, with the full knowledge that I will fail and that the point is really continuously trying again.
[^9]: Since I first wrote this, another delightful facet of this has presented itself. More on that another time.