# The Power of Mythology

I've long been fascinated by the myths and legends of cultures and peoples gone by. As a kid I loved stories of Greek and Roman mythologies, I devoured books on mythological creatures, and I read and reread Tolkien's works. Currently, I am reading Neil Gaiman's [Norse Mythology][1], and thoroughly enjoying it. Even if taken as literal stories, as we imagine they were, all mythology seems impossible to take on a literal level and beg to be allegories and metaphors.

The more I've turned that little nugget of thought over in my head, the more I've thought that maybe we actually still have more myths in the world than I had originally imagined. As I write this, it is July 4, 2018 — America's 242nd Independence Day. All around me I see the incredible mythos centered around the founding of this country being told, retold, and reimagined. It has not yet been a quarter of a millennia and yet we have already mostly replaced the common story with something still based in facts, but far more exciting. And this is not some sort of sinister propaganda machine, the more I've looked, the more I've seen mythologies taking over from history everywhere. We have myths and legends of the founding of certain very popular companies, much of the lives of celebrities is turned into myth, even sports become mythical. The latest issue of [Tennis Magazine][2] celebrates the 10th anniversary of "the greatest tennis match ever played".[^3] This seems to be something that all humans do. I do not nearly have the knowledge to say why this is the case. But I have had some interesting inside has to how.

> History became legend. Legend became myth.

My wife's family is incredibly large, diverse, and inclusive.[^4] Because of the size and how close everyone is, news/gossip spreads like wildfire. In the process several things happen, roughly in order: any auxiliary details that are not fundamental to the story are lost, and the remaining details tend to stray and get lost in translation. However, there is a bit of a corrective measure. Because it is a pretty close-knit family group, everyone knows everyone else relatively well. So throughout the telling, the story will sometimes walk back towards the conception of what we all imagine the people involved _would_ do in that situation. In a sense, we all get distilled down to a few easy-to-remember character traits and hallmark stories in the way the gods of the ancient stories were. 

But the evolution does not stop there. There are multiple generations of the family, all with their own stories. And a couple generations ago[^5], they were all immigrants who did not speak much if any english. Through countless tellings and retellings, some of the stories from those early days have evolved and varied in much the same way that our current stories do. Many of those involved have long forgotten the specifics, and what once was history is now legend. Sadly, before any of our generation has kids, those grandparents will probably have passed on, and all that will be left is myths. If we are lucky, our own stories will be worth remembering and they will join in the Mythos of the Family. But more stories will be made, and eventually no one will have time to track them all. Eventually the tales will be forgotten and lost, just like so many tales of the gods and goddesses gone by.

> Some legends are told. Some turn to dust, not to gold.

Myths seem to have power over the people who tell them and who listen to them. They help govern your reality and steer your actions. In the past, myths have always been connected to religion and worship. But in our increasingly secular and multi-religious world, the have become divorced from such things. There are no temples to George Washington, nor shrines to Kim Kardashian. But myths still play a central role in helping people all over the world guide their lives and inspire new stories. 

Despite this power, all myths fade and are doomed to be lost. However, we need not despair about that. For those of us that are living right now will be a part of the myths of future generations. Before we are forgotten, we will be talked about as mythological characters. You will be as mighty as Thor. You will be as beautiful as Aphrodite. You will be a god for a time. And stories of your deeds, your life, will help shape the thoughts, actions, and wishes of future generations. 

There is some beauty in that, is there not?

[1]: http://neilgaiman.com/works/Books/Norse+Mythology/
[2]: http://www.tennis.com/tags/strokes-genius/
[^3]: Rafael Nadal d. Roger Federer 6-4, 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 6-7 (8-10), 9-7. It certainly _was_ thrilling to watch.
[^4]: A few days ago a small subset of us went on a local tour for fun/free beer. The "small" group was 12, and the tour buses seated 14, so for a brief time we included 2 new members of the family. I have many more anecdotes, but I feel like those are separate posts.
[^5]: my wife's grandparents on her mom's side