---
layout: post
title: The Invasion Playbook - Sprint 1 - FAIL
author: Alex B
---

This post marks the end of week 2 (ok, technically I’m releasing this a bit late), and also the end of our first sprint! Exciting! At this point in our agile / flexible project, our goal was to have a product that's “shippable” and we must be able to receive feedback from users. At least… that’s how we defined a “successful sprint” at the beginning of this project, so let’s see how we did!  

After sprint #1, we have… (drum roll please)  

Not much :(  

In all honesty, we created a few plays and explained a few with diagrams on a few different Google docs, but we don’t have a final product. *"WHY???"* There are many reasons for our failure, some positive and some negative. I’ll get into some of my juicy favorites below. Our goals now are to focus on fixing the mistakes we made, refine our “flexibility”, and crush our next sprint! So let’s dive right in :)  

## Spirit Circle

I know I told you last week I’d mainly try to write about the IPB via three categories: The Good, The Bad, and Looking Forward. Those categories may end up working best for the mid-sprint update, but today I need to add this new category - “Spirit Circle”. If you don’t know what a Spirit Circle is, it has two meanings.  

First, the ultimate frisbee context. In ultimate frisbee, a spirit circle usually occurs after a match between two competitive teams, whether they played a low stress league match or a championship match at the tournament Manila Spirits. The two teams join in a circle, locked in each other’s arms, teams mixed as evenly as possible. The captains of each team usually give a little speech about things they enjoyed about the match, and give a few comments about what the other team did well and what they could improve on. The purpose of the spirit circle is to encourage a friendly atmosphere, even after a super competitive match.  
In the agile / flexible realm, a spirit circle is the FDI version of a “retrospective” meeting. As you may be able to guess, a “retrospective” is a meeting where all team members discuss how the sprint went. This is less focused on the product itself, and more focused on team dynamics, tools used, and overall how flexible we were. Our spirit circle consists of five specific areas:  
- Do more of… (what went well)  
- Do less of... (what didn’t go great)  
- Stop doing… (what went poorly)  
- Start doing... (new ideas)  
- General comments  

After our first sprint ended, we had a super productive 3 hour meeting where we discussed how everyone felt about the first sprint. Here are some of my favorite topics that came up during our spirit circle:  
### Do more of…  
#### Random updates  
During S1 we tried updating each other every few days, which kept us decently on track. We decided it would be useful if we went even farther during S2 and updated each other more frequently, aiming for once per day. In a normal flexible project, teammates often work side by side for 8 hours per day, in the same office, making daily standups super easy. Our situation is more difficult, as our team lives multiple hours apart. However, a quick daily update on WhatsApp should keep everyone more up to date and focused.  
### Do less of…  
#### Waiting without communicating  
During S1, we all admitted to waiting, which isn’t always bad. For example, when a team member was waiting for me to finish a specific section of offensive ultimate drills before putting them in a nicely formatted PDF, there’s really no option except to wait. Some tasks can only be done once others are completed, that much is obvious. However, this point focuses on waiting without communicating. At some points during S1, people (including me) were held up by a team member who is focusing on other tasks. In this situation, one should clearly communicate that you are waiting for said task to be completed before you can completed required tasks, which should give the teammate an opportunity to switch his focus onto the task you’re waiting for. We plan to do less of this “waiting” during S2.  
#### Changing the product vision 
After about halfway through S1, one team member and I got a bit confused about the layout of the product we were aiming to build. We didn’t understand the different categories and therefore we were having trouble creating content in those categories. We see each other about 4 times per week, so one day when we were chatting, we started coming up with a new product vision. We restructured the skeleton and came up with new categories, and when we were almost done and ready to tell our third teammate what we had come up with, we realized: the time to restructure or reorganize a product vision is NOT within a sprint. When a sprint is on, the sprint is ON!! There’s two reasons we decided we should never restructure the product vision in the middle of a sprint:  
First off, we hadn’t given ourselves enough time to try out the product vision we developed at the first backlog meeting. We all agreed that it’s important to give our ideas some solid effort before switching gears entirely. It’s possible that with some more time, we would realize the vision is perfect and we were just confused at the beginning. We could also take some valuable feedback from users which would shape our original vision into something totally new. We need to give each idea its allotted time and effort before totally abandoning it.  
Second, each product vision comes from the backlog meeting which requires each teammate to meet in person to make sure we all are clear on the vision and to develop tasks for the upcoming sprint. If we were to overhaul the product vision mid-sprint, we would also need a new backlog meeting! This isn’t “flexible” since this requires everyone to meet up again, and as I already mentioned, we all live far from each other.  
As I’m writing this, I realize I sound like we’re saying “NEW IDEAS = BAD!!” but in actuality, the idea to restructure the product gave birth to something great! With the intent of allowing new ideas, but not allowing those ideas to interrupt our work on the current product vision, we developed the I-line. I’ll explain this in the “Start doing…” section :)  
### Stop doing…  
#### Running away from responsibility  
A few times during S1, we all found ourselves running away from responsibility. This happened when we missed our 2nd standup, when a teammate was running behind on his tasks, and when we all inevitably knew we were going to fail the sprint.  
Our 2nd standup was missed because we all got pretty busy and nobody took the time to remind the team about it. We all knew it was supposed to happen, but somehow we let time pass by, without much mentioning about it. Maybe we all were lazy that day, or we thought we could pass the sprint without the standup. For S2, we will all make sure we don’t skip a standup unnoticed.  
Somewhere in the middle of the sprint, one of my teammates realized he was a bit behind on his tasks. He knew there was a lot to do, and he knew the S1 deadline was approaching, but he didn’t want to confront us and get help because he was worried about what we would say. If the IPB was run in a “typical management fashion” and I was his boss, I can imagine being frustrated with his performance. But as things are now, we’re all on the same playing field due to 1) our flexible management style, and 2) FDI is built by volunteers. We’re not getting paid to promote frisbee or build the IPB or write this blog. So how can he “get in trouble”? He can’t! I do understand the feeling of not wanting to let teammates down, but next time he knows he can tell us straight up so we can help. We’re all in this together!  
Finally, the fail. The final few days before S1 was over, there was very little communication on our Whatsapp group. One teammate sent some PDFs he was working on (yep, the infamous designer dude), but I was quiet, and so was my third teammate. We hadn’t spent many hours finalizing drills and theories, but instead we were barely making a peep because we hoped saying nothing would mean time would stand still and therefore we wouldn’t fail our first sprint. Taking a quick step back - this mindset is exactly why the IPB took a LONG time to take off. We had given each other some tasks in the past and come up with “product vision”-ish ideas, but whenever we set deadlines, we silently let them slip by so we could avoid any feeling of failing. This is not how a flexible team works, and S2 is on track to be very successful with this bit of gained knowledge.  
Our successes and failures depend on EVERYONE. We should encourage other and reach out when we need help. Let’s learn to trust our team!  
### Start doing…  
#### I-Line  
I’m excited about a new idea we came up with for S2! In the “Do less of…” section above, I discussed the plan to never change a sprint’s product vision within its sprint. This is a cool plan, but what happens when new ideas come about? Before, our new ideas got lost in our Whatsapp group messages, never to be found again. During this spirit circle, we came up with the idea of the Idea Line, or “I-Line” for short.  
(FYI, the name “I-Line” came from our attempt to make a new term that can relate to ultimate frisbee. After a few minutes of brainstorming, we came upon the terms “offense”, then “o-line”, then “I-line”. The “o-line” is the group of teammates who get on the field when your team starts the point as offense. The I-Line came from this, as a place where your thoughts and creative ideas line up while a sprint is in progress. I-Line can also be thought of a line of Invaders).  
The I-Line will be a document that holds the current outline of the sprint’s product vision, plus any new ideas that we come up during the sprint. If the idea is too large to handle during the current sprint, or necessarily related to this sprint but should be thought about during our product review meeting (or another time), throw it in the I-line!  
### General comments  
Most of our generic comments were focused on clarifying expectations for our product vision. For me and my teammate who has had zero previous experience being flexible, defining our first product vision had not been super clear. We didn’t know exactly how detailed we needed to make it (neither the outline during the backlog meeting, nor the final product at the end of the sprint), or how much content was necessary to be included after the first sprint. Here are some of the results of our discussions in these matters, which I found very enlightening.  
#### Ready, IGNITE!  
During our first backlog meeting, we came up with a product vision for the IPB which was very generic. We decided we wanted to make some type of printable PDF, maybe bound into a nice portable booklet, that players or coaches could carry around when training themselves or a team. The actual nitty-gritty specifics of the booklet (like size, colors, type of paper, weight, etc) were not planned out, which is what I'm focusing on in this section. Is it possible and / or desired to come up with a super specific final product vision during the first backlog meeting of a new project? I'm 100% sure the product will change and adapt as the product reviews and testing phases progress - this is not what I'm thinking about at the moment. Instead, I'm wondering how detailed could we have made the original product vision for sprint 1 of our first "flexible" FDI product?  
I'm asking this because:  
- Earlier in the day, before our spirit circle, I had this thought: >Today, on our final day of S1, I'm finishing up my final tasks while not exactly knowing how they will display in the IPB. This may be due to the fact that our original product vision was pretty cloudy, OR because I didn't pay attention to/learn from my team member's proposed layout design for the final product.  
- I feel like it's only possible to have a detailed "final product vision" in mind on the first sprint of a project IFF you have a lot of experience being "flexible". Our team is full of newbies in the "flexible" realm, so can we give ourselves a pass on the slightly ambiguous product vision we had during S1!  
Overall, anyone attempting to be flexible should remember to not skip a critical step: learning. Our spirit circle is designed to learn from our mistakes, and that’s what this blog is for as well. Don’t skip the “set” step in “Ready, set, ignite”. Or if you do, make sure you learn from it so you don’t repeat the same mistake.   
#### Cloudy or clear  
Expanding on this thought, during the spirit circle we learned that everyone had slightly different versions of the product vision in his head. Throughout the sprint, we had multiple clarification meetings about what some categories meant, and which categories should contain specific drills or theory. Out of this confusion, we asked ourselves: Next time, should we come up with a rigid outline during the backlog meeting, that has every little detailed defined? There are pros and cons to both sides - rigid vs generic product vision outline.  
If your vision is very rigid and planned out “to the T”, it should be very easy to determine how to get from point A (beginning of the sprint) to B (the product). The steps will be very logical, and if you go off course it will be easy to tell, since you probably won’t be able to adhere to the defined outline. However, creating this rigid structure can take lots of time, which our specific team doesn’t have. We need to be efficient with our time since we can only meet in person every 2 weeks, so let’s think about a more cloudy approach.  
If your vision is very cloudy and kinda “left up to the imagination”, it should be incredibly easy to outline. Instead of defining everything that would go in our “drills” category, we would be able to just name a category “drills” and assign someone to the task of defining sub-categories later in the sprint. This saves lots of time, which can be incredibly helpful for small teams like ours that live far apart. However, cloudy visions can leave much up to interpretation, leaving teams with the chance of defining an outline early in the sprint that doesn’t make sense later. As I mentioned in “Do less of…” it’s NOT OK to change a product vision mid sprint, so this potentially could lead to wasted time and effort.  
Looking at the two approaches, for S2 we decided to go somewhere in the middle, but more focused on the rigid side. We didn’t waste too much time defining all the nitty gritty details, but we gave it enough structure that we could easily assign tasks on day 1 of S2  
#### Let’s build a car  
Sorry, but I have one more thing about product visions :) I want to describe an interesting analogy that I learned from a teammate. It’s all about being flexible.  
When thinking about how to build the perfect product vision, where do you start? How detailed should it be? I (and my teammates) would recommend following these simple rules:  
1. Keep it simple  
2. Keep in mind the MVP (most valuable product)  
My thoughts on “keep it simple” have been thoroughly (and maybe too extensively) discussed in the previous two sections (“Ready, IGNITE!” and “Cloudy or clear”). So what do I now mean by “Keep in mind the MVP”? Let’s take a car as an example. Pretend you’re on a flexible team that wants to build a sleek new car, and you have 5 sprints to get there. Here are two example timelines you may follow during your project:  

Focus on the car  
Sprint 1: Build wheels  
Sprint 2: Add motor and car base  
Sprint 3: Add lights on front and back  
Sprint 4: Add doors & roof  
Sprint 5: Add windows & Finish it off  
Focusing on the car allows you to build a car after 6 sprints, but sprints 1 - 4 aren’t testable by users. They may be able to see a physical product, but they can’t drive it and give valuable feedback without feeling the wheels, motor, lights, doors, and windows. Let’s look at a new timeline, focused on the MVP. Our MVP for this example will a product that gets us from point A to point B. This doesn’t necessitate a car being built, but that’s still in our heads, so let’s see where we go.  

Focus on getting from point A to point B  
Sprint 1: Build skateboard  
Feedback: Needs to be more stable.  
Sprint 2: Build scooter  
Feedback: Needs to be faster  
Sprint 3: Build bicycle  
Feedback: Needs to be faster (engine)  
Sprint 4: Build motorcycle  
Feedback: Needs to fit 5 people  
Sprint 5: Build car  
Done!  

This time, each sprint produced a testable product, which led to valuable feedback that was used for future products. Also, because users were able to give feedback along the way, it’s possible that you were originally trying to solve a problem that could easily be solved with a different product you made - a bicycle or a motorcycle. Or maybe you could learn earlier in the process that you need a train, or a boat! This is the mindset we would like to have while making the IPB, that our original idea may not actually be the MVP. We need user feedback to make sure we’re producing the best product. In our case, this should be much simpler than the car example, but the ideology still holds. It’s best to focus on the most valuable product for your users and therefore design each sprint’s product vision so that you move in the right direction and receive valuable user feedback.  

## The Good, the Bad, and everything else  

This section is going to be pretty weak this week (haha... wordplay). All of the good / bad pieces of this week have been incorporated into sections above, so I will end this with one final topic I’m looking forward to.  

## Looking Forward  
Caution: testing ahead!  

We’ve been seriously working on the IPB for a bit over two weeks now, and so far all I’ve been able to tell my friends is “it’s going to be cool! And… can you test it when it’s done?” With our first fail comes two more weeks of waiting for user feedback. We decided it wouldn’t make sense to hand user an unfinished product, so our testing phase will have to wait! I'm honestly really looking forward to hearing how users will feel about our product. We've put a decent amount of time and effort into the Playbook, so we all want see if it is worth it! Obviously we won’t complete the entire Playbook for a while, so there will be many more iterations of feedback, changing things up, etc. But how we conduct testing will also influence how we move forward.  


Thanks for reading :) See ya next time!  
