---
layout: post
title: Icelanditures - Chronicles of land and ice (Part 3)
author: Alex B
categories: travel iceland
---

Now that it has been over a month since my last post, I figured it's time for part 3 of [Icelanditures](http://hencefarthing.blog/2018/03/05/Ice1/) :) Yes, this means I've been pretty "lazy" figuring out a post for this month, so sorry about that... I do intend to put up a post like Logan's, about a cool coding thing (a new project, something I learned, etc.) that we may refer to in the future. But that will have to wait!

### *Day 4:*
I can't believe we've already been in Iceland for three days!! Welp, lucky for y'all (and me), today didn't have a shortage of excitement. Bright and early we packed up to leave the lovely Seyðisfjörður. We cleaned the dishes, floors, beds, countertops, etc. and shoved everything back in our slightly-smaller-than-we-desired jeep. Best part of the morning, you ask? Some of the neighborhood kids came to say goodbye and thanks again for the frisbee. I love those kids.

Onward!! Wait wait, before we got on the road we needed to figure out one important roadtrip necessity: music. Minor problem: car entertainment system is all in French. Who speaks French? Alicia and Derek. Did they teach me anything? Nope (Well, nothing useful for this situation). Shucks. Google Translate to the rescue!! It took only about 15 minutes of fiddle-faddling and 10 of "oui" / "no" to guesstimate which menus we were entering until finally (accidentally) we changed the language back to English. Phew, on the road again. (Johnnie Cash / Willie Nelson, anyone?)

We passed through lots of farms, a couple of little towns, a few bridges, and at one point noticed a fun activity going on that none of us had participated in for a long time. A slip 'n slide! Michelle quickly pulled the car over so we could get a better look at the crazy "Icelandic" activity. As a group, we walked up to check things out, took some pics, felt creepy, and started walking back to our cars. Midway down the path, Healy accidentally challenged me by mentioning to Bonk: "I wish Alex would have asked to slide down, I may have gone if he had." Boom. Challenge accepted! I got to challenge Healy back: "Really? I'll totally ask to join if you'll come with!" Guess what happened next - we hiked back to the top of the slide, asked to join, then we slid down! Just before takeoff, the teacher explained that today was the kids' last day of school so they were BBQing, biking, and slipping all day. We were so lucky they were there and that they were so friendly. The kids actually encouraged us to cut in like so we could slide down the soapy wet sheet of plastic :) Michelle may have a photo of this event so I'll get that too y'all later. As for now, my soaked pants are hanging on a tree outside, drying in the medium light night.

Up till this point in the trip I've been trying to get photos of friends combined w/ scenery since those are usually more entertaining to see long-term. During the scrunched vehicle part of the trip I had to switch to lots of nature photos (oh no!) and some pretty bomb ones if you ask me! We first encountered some more crazy waterfalls along the fjords, then a few vibrant green farmlands among some crazy vertical slopes. Between the bumpy bridges and the (sometimes) oblivious oncoming traffic, my friend in the backseat ("Bonk") yells "Reindeer!!!" Sure enough, we saw about 9 reindeer chillin on the edge of a mountain eating grass. We "quickly" spun the jeep around and got some quick photos. Between there and our hotel we found 2 other groups again just chillin, livin the 4-20 lifestyle. (We also saw cows for the first time... Not life-changing but funny that the sheep outnumbered them 10^99999999:1. If you need help interpreting that ratio, just ask)

Zwop! We now are at the hotel (Hallelujah). It's a cozy little place, 8 rooms, not a chain, nice sheets, communal shower & restroom. Priority #1 = food. The menu? Lamb, arctic char (fish), or veggies. I chose lamb :) I'm cutting this part short since I'm tired and food is boring.

Final activity of the day (I told you it was a busy one). We drove to a nearby lagoon that starts with a J... I can't remember what it's called and I have no internet access at the moment, sorry! The main attraction of the lagoon was blue ice chunks floating in a lake, according to pics online. It didn't disappoint. There were stunning chunks of the nearby glacier that beautifully reflected a baby-blue color. We also chucked off some perfectly clear ice pieces to throw down each other's shirts. Cuz we're mature like that. Again, we were met with a surprise here. Seals! Six seals popped their heads out of the water, slapped each other around, and dove back under. I'm glad my friends were smart enough to charge their batteries last night or else we wouldn't have taken pictures.

At last we ended up home around 10:30. Still not completely tired (due to the unending sunlight), we played some frisbee, watched some comedy special on the fleeting Wi-Fi signal, and now it's time for bed.

## Thanks!
There's still more Iceland adventure writing to come, but I'll try to get back on track with the themes Logan and I are coming up with. We do come up with real themes, but lately I haven't been sticking with them, sorry Logan :)